Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Families)
If you are a first-timer applicant, you may apply for the Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (EHG) to help with your new or resale flat purchase.

First-timer families may qualify for an EHG of up to $80,000, while a couple comprising a first-timer and second-timer may qualify for an EHG (Singles) of up to $40,000.

If you are buying a resale flat, you must first qualify for the CPF Housing Grants for resale flats (Families or Singles) before applying for the EHG. You may also apply for the Proximity Housing Grant (PHG) (Families or Singles) if you meet the eligibility conditions.

Apply for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter via the HDB Flat Portal for a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options before you embark on your home buying journey. It will inform you upfront of your eligibility to purchase a new or resale flat, as well as the amount of CPF housing grants and HDB housing loan you are eligible for.

Eligibility conditions
Criteria	Details
Household	
Core family nucleus

A household’s eligibility for housing subsidies and HDB housing loan will be assessed based on the core family nucleus, which is formed by the core applicant(s) and core occupier(s), who enable the household to meet the eligibility conditions for the flat purchase. They must remain in the flat application, as well as during the minimum occupation period (MOP) after the flat purchase.

Assistance for

Couples, families, or orphaned siblings who are first-timer applicants buying an HDB resale flat
First-timer Singapore Citizen (SC) and Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR) applicants or occupiers whose fiancé/ fiancée/ spouse/ sibling has previously taken any housing subsidy
Refer to the following for more information on the eligibility conditions:

Fiancé and fiancée
Married couples and/or parent(s) with child(ren)*
Multi-generation families
Orphaned siblings
* If you are a single SC buying a flat with your parents, at least one of your parents must be an SC and both parents must be first-timers. Your parents must also meet all the eligibility conditions for the EHG.

Employment	
You and/ or your core co-applicant(s) and/ or core occupier(s) must:

Have worked continuously for at least 12 months, 2 months before the HFE letter application; and
Be working at the time of the HFE letter application
Monthly household income ceiling	
For first-timer households:

The average gross monthly household income (including all applicants and occupiers) for the months worked during the 12-month period must not exceed $9,000
For first-timer and second-timer applicants:

Half of the average gross monthly household income (including all applicants and occupiers) for the months worked during the 12-month period must not exceed $4,500
Remaining lease of flat	
More than 20 years
Flat must have sufficient remaining lease to cover the youngest core applicant and/ or core occupier to the age of 95 to qualify for the full EHG amount. Otherwise, the EHG amount will be pro-rated
For resale flat purchase, you can get the details of a flat lease at HDB Map Services
Ownership/ interest in property in Singapore or overseas other than HDB flat	
Interest or ownership in a property

You have acquired a property through purchase or when it is:

Acquired by gift;
Inherited as a beneficiary under a will or from the Intestate Succession Act; or
Owned, acquired, or disposed of through nominees.
Private residential property

All applicants and occupiers listed in the HFE letter application:

Must not own or have an interest in any local or overseas private property; and
Must not have disposed of any private property in the last 30 months before the HFE letter application.
Non-residential property

All persons listed in the HFE letter application can, as a household, own up to 1 non-residential property at HFE letter application and up to 30 months before HFE letter application.

Note:

A private residential property includes but is not limited to a house, building, land that is under a residential land zoning (including land with multiple land zoning[1]), Executive Condominium (EC) unit, privatised HUDC flat and mixed use development[2].

Non-residential property is a property under a non-residential land zoning and/ or the permitted use does not include housing.

[1] E.g., residential with commercial at 1st storey or commercial and residential

[2] E.g., properties with a residential component, such as HDB shop with living quarters.

Amount	
The amount is based on the average gross monthly household income assessed over for the months worked during the 12-month period before the flat application. The incomes of all working persons in the household (including applicants and occupiers) are included in the assessment. Families with lower household incomes will receive a bigger grant amount.

Average monthly household income and corresponding EHG amount
Usage and distribution of EHG	
The EHG can be used to:

Offset the purchase price of the flat
Reduce the housing loan required for the flat purchase
If your household is eligible for the EHG, all members of the core family nucleus will receive equal shares of the EHG. It will be fully credited into the CPF Ordinary Accounts of SCs and SPRs. It will not be paid in cash.

Note: Only core applicants can use their share of the housing grants to pay for the flat purchase. 
