Couples and Families
Understand the eligibility conditions, the type of flats and CPF housing grants you may apply for, based on your household type.

Apply for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter via the HDB Flat Portal for a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options before you embark on your home buying journey. It will inform you upfront of your eligibility to purchase a new or resale flat, as well as the amount of CPF housing grants and HDB housing loan you are eligible for.

If you and your spouse are aged 55 and above and are looking to buy a short-lease 2-room Flexi flat, or aged 65 and above and are looking to buy a or Community Care Apartment (CCA), please refer to the section on seniors.

If the information below does not apply to you, please share your situation with us via our e-Feedback form. We will assess your request holistically.

Fiancé and fiancée
You are buying an HDB flat with your fiancé or fiancée.

Married couples and/ or parent(s) with child(ren)
You are buying a flat as a Singapore Citizen (SC) or Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR) household.

Multi-generation families
You are buying a flat with your fiancé/ fiancée or spouse and your parents.

Orphaned siblings
You are buying a flat with your sibling(s) who are orphans and single.

Families with non-residents
You are a Singapore Citizen (SC) buying a flat with your non-resident spouse or parents/ child(ren).

Non-resident spouse
You may apply to buy a 2-room Flexi flat in the non-mature estates from HDB or a resale flat on the open market with your non-resident spouse who is not an SC or Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR). If you have a child who is an SC or SPR, please refer to married couples and/ or parent(s) with child(ren).

Non-resident parents/ child(ren)
You may buy a resale flat as a single, divorced, or widowed SC, with your non-resident parents/ child(ren) (under your legal custody, care, and control), who are not SC or SPR.

Core family nucleus
A household’s eligibility for housing subsidies and HDB housing loan is assessed based on the core family nucleus, which is formed by the applicant(s) and occupier(s) who enable the household to meet the eligibility conditions for the flat purchase. They must remain in the flat application, as well as during the minimum occupation period (MOP) after the flat purchase.

You and your non-resident spouse/ parents/ child(ren) will form the core family nucleus.

Eligibility conditions
Criteria	New Flats
(Only for purchase with non-resident spouse)	Resale Flats
Flat type	
2-room Flexi flat in non-mature estates

All flat types (excluding 3Gen flats and Prime Location Public Housing resale flats)
Citizenship	
You must be an SC
Your spouse is a non-resident, i.e., neither an SC nor an SPR, must be holding a valid Visit Pass or Work Pass of any validity period, at the time of your flat application
You must be an SC.

Non-resident spouse

If you are 21 years old or above:

Your spouse must have a valid+ Long Term Visit Pass or Work Pass of at least 6 months from the date of issue at the time you submit your application to buy a resale flat
If you are 35 years old or above:

Your spouse must have a valid+ Visit Pass or Work Pass of any validity period at the time you submit your application to buy a resale flat
Non-resident family members:

You must include one of the following family members in your flat application:
Your parents and siblings (if any)
Children under your legal custody, care, and control (for widowed/ divorced persons)
At least 1 parent/ child must have a valid+ Long Term Visit Pass or Work Pass of at least 6 months from the date of issue at the time you submit your application to buy a resale flat
+ If the pass expires during the transaction to buy a resale flat, it must be renewed and valid at the time you complete the resale flat purchase
Age	At least 35 years old	At least 21 years old
Monthly household income ceiling	
The incomes of all persons listed in the HFE letter application will be considered in the income ceiling assessment.

2-room Flexi flat (99-year lease): $7,000

For short-lease 2-room Flexi flat, please refer to seniors.

No income ceiling

Note:

Income ceiling applies to qualify for CPF housing grants (excluding Proximity Housing Grant) and HDB housing loan.

Ownership/ interest in property in Singapore or overseas other than HDB flat	
Interest or ownership in a property
You have acquired a property through purchase or when it is:

Acquired by gift;
Inherited as a beneficiary under a will or from the Intestate Succession Act; or
Owned, acquired, or disposed of through nominees.
Private residential property
All applicants and occupiers listed in the HFE letter application:

Must not own or have an interest in any local or overseas private property; and
Must not have disposed of any private residential property in the following time period:
Application	Disposal of private residential property
Buying a flat from HDB
Buying a resale flat with CPF housing grant(s)
Applying for a housing loan from HDB
At least 30 months before HFE letter application
Buying a non-subsidised resale flat (including Proximity Housing Grant)	At least 15 months before HFE letter application
Senior citizens (and their spouses) aged 55 and above who own or have an interest in a private residential property do not need to meet the time period in the above table if they intend to buy 1 of the following:

Short-lease 2-room Flexi flat or Community Care Apartment from HDB; or
4-room or smaller non-subsidised resale flat (they may apply for Proximity Housing Grant, if eligible)
These seniors must dispose of the private residential property within 6 months of the completion of the flat purchase.

Non-residential property
All persons listed in the HFE letter application can, as a household, own up to 1 non-residential property at HFE letter application and up to 30 months before HFE letter application.

Note:

A private residential property includes but is not limited to a house, building, land that is under a residential land zoning (including land with multiple land zoning[1]), Executive Condominium (EC) unit, privatised HUDC flat and mixed use development[2].

Non-residential property is a property under a non-residential land zoning and/ or the permitted use does not include housing.

[1] E.g., residential with commercial at 1st storey or commercial and residential
[2] E.g., properties with a residential component, such as HDB shop with living quarters.

Previous housing subsidies	
Only first-timer core applicants and core occupiers may qualify.

If you or any core applicant and/ or core occupier have taken a housing subsidy, you are a second-timer and will not be eligible. A subsidised housing unit refers to:

A flat bought from HDB
A resale flat bought on the open market with CPF housing grant
A Design Build and Sell Scheme (DBSS) flat bought from a property developer
An EC unit bought from a property developer
Other forms of housing subsidy (e.g., enjoyed benefits under the Selective En bloc Redevelopment Scheme (SERS), privatisation of HUDC estate, etc.)
Any previous housing subsidy taken does not affect the eligibility to buy a resale flat.

Note:

The number of housing subsidies you have taken will affect your eligibility to apply for CPF housing grants (excluding Proximity Housing Grant).

Ownership/ interest in HDB flat	If you or any person listed in the application owns or has an interest in any HDB flat, you must dispose of the flat within 6 months of the completion of the flat purchase.
Undischarged bankrupt	
If you are an undischarged bankrupt, prior consent must be obtained from the Official Assignee (OA) or the private trustee, if:

You are applying to buy an HDB flat that is bigger than a 5-room flat or a 3Gen flat
You are buying any flat type with a net purchase price of $500,000 or above, after taking into account any HDB subsidies or levy
You do not need to seek prior consent from the OA or the private trustee if you are listed as an occupier of a flat.

Additional amount payable	
$15,000, incorporated into the price of the booked flat

Not applicable

CPF housing grants	
Eligible families may apply for the following CPF housing grants for their flat purchase:

Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Singles)
Eligible families may apply for the following CPF housing grants for their flat purchase:

CPF Housing Grants (Singles)
Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Singles)
Proximity Housing Grant (Singles)
Top-up Grant (at a later stage if eligible)
