Couples and Families
Understand the eligibility conditions, the type of flats and CPF housing grants you may apply for, based on your household type.

Apply for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter via the HDB Flat Portal for a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options before you embark on your home buying journey. It will inform you upfront of your eligibility to purchase a new or resale flat, as well as the amount of CPF housing grants and HDB housing loan you are eligible for.

If you and your spouse are aged 55 and above and are looking to buy a short-lease 2-room Flexi flat, or aged 65 and above and are looking to buy a or Community Care Apartment (CCA), please refer to the section on seniors.

If the information below does not apply to you, please share your situation with us via our e-Feedback form. We will assess your request holistically.

Fiancé and fiancée
You are buying an HDB flat with your fiancé or fiancée.

Core family nucleus
A household’s eligibility for housing subsidies and HDB housing loan is assessed based on the core family nucleus, which is formed by the applicant(s) and occupier(s) who enable the household to meet the eligibility conditions for the flat purchase. They must remain in the flat application, as well as during the minimum occupation period (MOP) after the flat purchase.

You and your fiancé/ fiancée will form a core family nucleus. You may apply for a flat from HDB or buy a resale flat on the open market with your fiancé/ fiancée. If you intend to buy a 3Gen flat, please refer to multi-generation families.

Eligibility conditions
Criteria	New Flats and Resale Prime Location Public Housing (PLH) Flats	Resale Flats
Flat type	Up to a 5-room flat	All flat types (excluding 3Gen flats)
Citizenship	
You must:

Be a Singapore Citizen (SC)
Include at least 1 other SC or Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR)^
You must:

Be an SC or SPR
Include at least 1 occupant who is an SC or SPR
For SPR households (i.e., an SPR household with no SC owner):

All core applicants and core occupiers must have SPR status for at least 3 years
Age	At least 21 years old
Monthly household income ceiling	
Total income of all persons listed in the HFE letter application.

2-room Flexi flat (99-year lease):

$7,000
3-room flat:

$7,000 or $14,000, depending on project. Our press release on the sales launch will specify the income ceiling
4- and 5-room flat:

$14,000
$21,000 if purchasing with extended or multi-generation family (refer to the guide for more details)
No income ceiling

Note:

Income ceiling applies to qualify for CPF housing grants (excluding Proximity Housing Grant) and HDB housing loan.

Ownership/ interest in property in Singapore or overseas other than HDB flat	
Interest or ownership in a property
You have acquired a property through purchase or when it is:

Acquired by gift;
Inherited as a beneficiary under a will or from the Intestate Succession Act; or
Owned, acquired, or disposed of through nominees.
Private residential property
All applicants and occupiers listed in the HFE letter application:

Must not own or have an interest in any local or overseas private property; and
Must not have disposed of any private residential property in the following time period:
Application	Disposal of private residential property
Buying a flat from HDB
Buying a resale flat with CPF housing grant(s)
Applying for a housing loan from HDB
At least 30 months before HFE letter application
Buying a non-subsidised resale flat (including Proximity Housing Grant)	At least 15 months before HFE letter application
Senior citizens (and their spouses) aged 55 and above who own or have an interest in a private residential property do not need to meet the time period in the above table if they intend to buy 1 of the following:

Short-lease 2-room Flexi flat or Community Care Apartment from HDB; or
4-room or smaller non-subsidised resale flat (they may apply for Proximity Housing Grant, if eligible)
These seniors must dispose of the private residential property within 6 months of the completion of the flat purchase.

Non-residential property
All persons listed in the HFE letter application can, as a household, own up to 1 non-residential property at HFE letter application and up to 30 months before HFE letter application.

Note:

A private residential property includes but is not limited to a house, building, land that is under a residential land zoning (including land with multiple land zoning[1]), Executive Condominium (EC) unit, privatised HUDC flat and mixed use development[2].

Non-residential property is a property under a non-residential land zoning and/ or the permitted use does not include housing.

[1] E.g., residential with commercial at 1st storey or commercial and residential
[2] E.g., properties with a residential component, such as HDB shop with living quarters.

Previous housing subsidies	
A subsidised housing unit refers to:

A flat bought from HDB
A resale flat bought on the open market with CPF housing grant
A Design Build and Sell Scheme (DBSS) flat bought from a property developer
An EC unit bought from a property developer
Other forms of housing subsidy (e.g., enjoyed benefits under the Selective En bloc Redevelopment Scheme (SERS), privatisation of HUDC estate, etc.)
Any previous housing subsidy taken does not affect the eligibility to buy a resale flat.

Note:

The number of housing subsidies you have taken will affect your eligibility to apply for CPF housing grants (excluding Proximity Housing Grant).

Resale levy payable	
If you and/ or any core applicants or core occupiers have taken a housing subsidy, you are considered a second-timer. All second-timer core applicants and core occupiers will need to pay their respective resale levies[3], if applicable, when buying a flat from HDB. Find out more on the resale levy payable.

If you and/ or any core applicants or core occupiers have taken 2 housing subsidies, you are not eligible to apply or be listed as a core occupier in a flat application to buy a flat from HDB[4] or resale PLH flat on the open market.

[3] Resale levy is not applicable to buyers of resale PLH flats.
[4] Seniors may apply for a short-lease flat. Read seniors for more information.

Not applicable
Ownership/ interest in HDB flat	
If you or any person listed in the application owns or has an interest in any HDB flat, you must dispose of the flat within 6 months of the completion of the flat purchase.

Undischarged bankrupt	
If you are an undischarged bankrupt, prior consent must be obtained from the Official Assignee (OA) or the private trustee, to apply to buy:

An HDB flat that is bigger than a 5-room flat or a 3Gen flat
Any flat type with a net purchase price of $500,000 or above, after taking into account any HDB subsidies or levy
You do not need to seek prior consent from the OA or the private trustee if you are listed as an occupier of a flat.

CPF housing grants	
Eligible families may apply for the following CPF housing grants for their flat purchase:

Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Families)
Step-Up CPF Housing Grant (Families)
For buyers of resale PLH flats, the CPF housing grants for resale flats apply.

Eligible families may apply for the following CPF housing grants for their flat purchase:

CPF Housing Grants (Families)
Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Families)
Step-Up CPF Housing Grant (Families)
Proximity Housing Grant (Families)
^ First-timer households comprising only 1 SC and 1 or more SPR family members will have to pay a premium of $10,000 at flat purchase. You may apply for a Citizen Top-Up Grant of $10,000 when your spouse obtains Singapore citizenship or when you have an SC child. Find out more information about the Citizen Top-Up Grant eligibility conditions.

Solemnisation of marriage
You need to solemnise your marriage within 3 months from the completion of the flat purchase. HDB may request for a copy of your marriage certificate (where required) for verification.

If your marriage was registered overseas, please submit a copy of your marriage certificate via our e-Feedback form within 3 months from the completion of the flat purchase.

If your fiancé/ fiancée is below 21 years old
Your fiancé/ fiancée can only be listed as a core occupier in the flat application. Before you submit an application for the HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter, please write to us via our e-Feedback form with you and your fiancé/ fiancée's details, such as full name and NRIC, so that we can process your request.

No change of persons listed in the application
Flat applications are only valid if there are no changes to the persons listed in the application. The application will be cancelled in the event of a break-up. Please refer to the buying procedures for new flats and resale flats for more information
