Singles
Understand the eligibility conditions, types of flats and CPF housing grants you may apply for if you are single, widowed or divorced, aged 35 and above, and are buying a flat on your own.

Apply for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter via the HDB Flat Portal for a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options before you embark on your home buying journey. It will inform you upfront of your eligibility to purchase a new or resale flat, as well as the amount of CPF housing grants and HDB housing loan you are eligible for.

If you are aged 55 and above and are looking to buy a short-lease 2-room Flexi flat, or aged 65 and above and are looking to buy a Community Care Apartment (CCA), please refer to the section on seniors.

If you intend to buy a new flat (3-room or bigger) or a resale flat with CPF Housing Grant (Families) with your parents, please refer to married couples and/ or parent(s) with child(ren).

If the information below does not apply to you (e.g. you are an unwed parent and would like to buy a flat with your child(ren)), please share your situation with us via our e-Feedback form. We will assess your request holistically. 

Singles
You are buying an HDB flat on your own.

Core nucleus
A household’s eligibility for housing subsidies and HDB housing loan is assessed based on the core nucleus which is formed by the applicant(s) and occupier(s) who enable the household to meet the eligibility conditions for the flat purchase. They must remain in the flat application, as well as during the minimum occupation period (MOP) after the flat purchase.

You may apply for a 2-room Flexi flat from HDB or buy a resale flat on the open market as a core applicant.

Eligibility conditions
Criteria	New Flats	Resale Flats
Flat type	2-room Flexi flat in the non-mature estates	
All flat types (excluding 3Gen flats) in any location

Note:

Up to 5-room if applying for CPF housing grants

Citizenship	You must be a Singapore Citizen (SC)
Age	At least 35 years old	
35 years old or above if unmarried or divorced
21 years old or above if widowed or an orphan^
^ At least 1 of your deceased parents was an SC or Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR)

Monthly household income ceiling	
2-room Flexi flat (99-year lease): $7,000

The total income of all persons listed in the HFE letter application.

For short-lease 2-room Flexi flat, please refer to seniors.

No income ceiling

Note:

Income ceiling applies to qualify for CPF housing grants (excluding Proximity Housing Grant) and HDB housing loan.

Ownership/ interest in property in Singapore or overseas other than HDB flat	
Interest or ownership in a property
You have acquired a property through purchase or when it is:

Acquired by gift;
Inherited as a beneficiary under a will or from the Intestate Succession Act; or
Owned, acquired, or disposed of through nominees.
Private residential property
All applicants and occupiers listed in the HFE letter application:

Must not own or have an interest in any local or overseas private property; and
Must not have disposed of any private residential property in the following time period:
Application	Disposal of private residential property
Buying a flat from HDB
Buying a resale flat with CPF housing grant(s)
Applying for a housing loan from HDB
At least 30 months before HFE letter application
Buying a non-subsidised resale flat (including Proximity Housing Grant)	At least 15 months before HFE letter application
Senior citizens (and their spouses) aged 55 and above who own or have an interest in a private residential property do not need to meet the time period in the above table if they intend to buy 1 of the following:

Short-lease 2-room Flexi flat or Community Care Apartment from HDB; or
4-room or smaller non-subsidised resale flat (they may apply for Proximity Housing Grant, if eligible)
These seniors must dispose of the private residential property within 6 months of the completion of the flat purchase.

Non-residential property
All persons listed in the HFE letter application can, as a household, own up to 1 non-residential property at HFE letter application and up to 30 months before HFE letter application.

Note:

A private residential property includes but is not limited to a house, building, land that is under a residential land zoning (including land with multiple land zoning[1]), Executive Condominium (EC) unit, privatised HUDC flat and mixed use development[2].

Non-residential property is a property under a non-residential land zoning and/ or the permitted use does not include housing.

[1] E.g., residential with commercial at 1st storey or commercial and residential
[2] E.g., properties with a residential component, such as HDB shop with living quarters.

Previous housing subsidies	
Only first-timer core applicants may qualify.

If you, the core applicant, have taken a housing subsidy, you are a second-timer and will not be eligible. A subsidised housing unit refers to:

A flat bought from HDB
An HDB resale flat bought on the open market with CPF housing grant
A Design Build and Sell Scheme (DBSS) flat bought from a property developer
An EC unit bought from a property developer
Other forms of housing subsidy (e.g., enjoyed benefits under the Selective En bloc Redevelopment Scheme (SERS), privatisation of HUDC estate, etc.)
Any previous housing subsidy taken does not affect the eligibility to buy a resale flat.

Note:

If you have taken any housing subsidies, you are not eligible to apply for CPF housing grants (excluding Proximity Housing Grant).

Ownership/ interest in HDB flat	If you or any person listed in the application owns or has an interest in any HDB flat, you must dispose of the flat within 6 months of the completion of the flat purchase.
Additional amount payable	
$15,000, incorporated into the price of the booked flat

Not applicable

CPF housing grants	
Eligible buyers may apply for the following CPF housing grants for their flat purchase:

Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Singles)
Eligible buyers may apply for the following CPF housing grants for their flat purchase:

CPF Housing Grants (Singles)
Enhanced CPF Housing Grant (Singles)
Proximity Housing Grant (Singles)
